hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I sat down and spoke
with Brandon Sullivan the chief product
officer at tococo de coco is a
consulting firm that builds tools for
decentralized autonomous organizations
in 2020 the team released alien worlds
and open metaverse land mining game that
incorporates nfts and dowds the team
cites it is the first project to put
Dows into direct competition with one
another within a single economy in this
conversation Brendan and I talk about
how his professional journey through
Tech and product management led to
building Dow technology at decoco the
democratization of content and
information how dowels require people to
be successful the various use cases for
Dao's the grants the team has available
for Builders to create in the alien
world's ecosystem and so much more just
a reminder nothing said on this podcast
is a solicitation to buy or sell any
tokens that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Brendan and I hope
you enjoy the conversation too
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
Brendan Sullivan the chief product
officer at de coco how are you doing
today Brendan I'm doing great how are
you I'm doing really well uh we were
just kind of talking before we got
recording that uh I was at East Denver
and one of your colleagues was at East
Denver and they were just kind of there
to get a sense of what was going on at
the conference so maybe before we jump
into you your background a lot of the
cool things you're working on at de coco
and alien worlds did your co-worker did
your peer share any interesting insights
about East Denver maybe about their
perspective on gaming and the blockchain
space or anything like that we haven't
debriefed and so when I talked to him a
couple of days ago he was talking about
new conspiracy theories which we
probably shouldn't get into but
apparently there are a lot going around
to eat Denver and
um we were talking about
you know stable coins and who's
controlling them and that kind of thing
so I was he wasn't sure what to make of
it and I wasn't sure what to make of him
telling me about it so it sounded like
it was a good collection of people yeah
that's one of the things that I love
about the space is that there's really
cool transparent immutable technology
and then there's also the Fringe and
everybody who is kind of fed up with the
way that things are currently operated
so maybe they have some UniQue Ideas
yeah it's really fun I've never been in
a market where there's so many people
like that that are they have kind of
stepped away from the easiest way of
doing things or building businesses of
transferring value of making a value
proposition and rejected that in favor
of doing something new and that's it
takes a different set of people right
the personalities come along with it and
I find it really invigorating for me
personally but you do definitely hear a
lot of stories and people get worried
about being some of them turn out to be
true some of them not and it's um it's a
great space yeah it reminds me of two
sayings uh broken clock is right twice a
day and uh there's also a Nirvana saying
from Kurt just because you're paranoid
doesn't mean they're not after you
that's right
so you mentioned that this is kind of an
interesting market for you to be
participating in and you have a diverse
background in I.T and research analytics
so before we kind of delve into
everything could you just give us an
overview of the worlds you were working
in before you came into the blockchain
and gaming and web3 space I'll give it a
shot I started out in Humanities not in
technology I went to journalism school
and when I got out of school I joined a
publishing company like a pharmaceutical
publishing company as an editor so it's
a very low level guy that's you know
editing technical monographs about how
drugs interact and I became interested
in our publishing system I'd never been
that into technology but when I saw how
it worked and started working on it and
doing some testing on it this is how
content is marked up how it's stored how
it's delivered for different different
products that that company had I became
really interested and so I started you
know got my own computer and I was
working on well I had a computer I
started working building some software
projects on it and I got a job I went
from there to a tech writing job for the
Department of Defense well not the dod
like a contractor a big contract okay
and um I started building stuff right
away we're building stuff for the Army
Reserves and a different Personnel
Command stuff and I loved it I was
building a lot of training applications
a lot of websites and things like that I
uh did a short stint for a year at a big
car rental company and then I went back
to publishing the work on digital
transformation projects and this was
again a little higher level job doing
big software projects to take all of
this content that they had and this was
in nursing academic publishing so they
had tons and tons of content and how do
you turn that into Apps and websites
in online learning and I was there for
quite a while and that's where I learned
you know agile lean methodologies you
know how to build successful projects I
I got into ux and interviewing customers
and you know customer intimacy was kind
of a new thing you know everybody in
Tech was like you build it and they will
come and ux in interviewing
methodologies and we're very Innovative
at the time and I just loved it I still
do it's still a big thing that I believe
in that you got to get really close to
your customers really know what problems
they're going to solve and they don't
often care about how cool something
you're building is unless it solves a
problem for them by the time I left that
company I had an MBA and I was a product
manager so I went you know through
programmer project manager different
business type jobs and landed in product
management and I then I went into uh the
marketing space building Big Marketing
apps for pharmaceutical companies hotel
chains Automotive companies you know big
campaigns loyalty campaigns incentive
campaigns and solutions at that job I
had a lot of different roles I was ahead
of innovation I worked with startups
through through partnership we had with
capital innovators which is an incubator
here in St Louis Missouri and coaching
startups and doing a lot with business
model Innovation that's where I I did a
ton of business cases so I really cut my
teeth on finding how we're going to
create value who are we creating it for
and how we're going to pay for it and if
we can do it for a profit the company
had a lot of different businesses so it
was really a challenge to juggle all of
those it's a lot easier if you have one
business model than five or six and we
had SAS products and consulting services
and a lot of different you know kind of
hybrid technology Solutions creative
services so all those different business
model and I kind of enjoyed trying to
figure out how to optimize each of those
I was doing that at that incentive
company a little over a year ago I was
working on an 80 space for the in the
automotive sector kind of trying to
connect car companies to dealerships to
utility companies right and a product
that did that I was using AI to sort of
slurp in all of this paperwork that you
hand over when you buy an EV and we were
using AI to to read all of it and see if
the name on the driver's license was the
name of the title which was the same as
the name of the person that bought the
car to see if we could save some money
on the kind of the human auditing of the
back end of that system I was building
that product and a friend called me up
and asked me if I could uh talk to these
people that he was working for in the
crypto space about product and I love
product management it's who I am it's
what I do and I'm always up for that and
that's how I met the decoco team and got
converted really cool background uh
there are a few kind of lines that I
want to touch on there you got your
start in the medical space coming from a
journalism perspective so I'm curious
and maybe this is grasping for straws
but having paywalls behind medical
journals can kind of be disheartening
when there's so much information out
there and there are large swaths of the
world that can't gain access to these
medical titles and journals so I'm
wondering if maybe some of these issues
that you saw in like a larger
bureaucratic sort of field pushed you
into the startup space into the product
management space I'm wondering if
there's any relationship there with
wanting to be kind of on the ground with
something that you could really get your
hands on and and maybe make more of an
impact with that's a great question in
in medical publishing that is a big
problem the paywalls kind of prevent new
procedures and methodologies to get out
to everybody and the Publishers will
defend that the state of publishing
books is very expensive paying editors
like I was not very much but paying them
nonetheless you know requires those
Library uh you know I guess you buy a
monthly license or you've got so many
seats per license at the different
school and they justifiably get a lot of
a flack or kind of protecting that
content I do think that the blockchain
kind of Licensing models and the new
innovations that we see coming forward
is it it'll be uh it offers Innovation
and democratization of content and
insights and research results I think
authors are frustrated with Publishers
you know publishing generals being
challenged I think and I'm not in the
space anymore but still being being
challenged to prove their work within in
a world that doesn't need their
infrastructure so much or there's so
much we can do on our own yeah really
cool thanks for for your insights and
then um secondly another addition to
your original response is um you were
building out this AI service that would
scan through documents and look for
particular names the first quarter of
2023 has been kind of an explosion of
natural language processing AI chat Bots
uh it's kind of years of development
that kind of exploded all at once so
what is your perspective on the current
status of these AI generated chat Bots
is this along the lines of where you
thought AI would be right now based off
of your experience working in your
previous company what's your general
insights into how AI is being released
into the world right now well like
everybody else I mean chat gbt is
incredible like the first time I used it
in my mind was blown so I I don't know
of anybody that you know isn't freaked
at how cool that is and it's I think
it's great that um it's disrupt you know
that it wasn't a big fan company that
brought it Forward I like that a lot and
I think everybody kind of likes that a
bit we see some change in the control of
who has this technology a little bit for
me it was a revelation because when I
was building products with AI you know
just 15 months ago it was really like a
below the scene service right it was
things we're doing to kind of like do a
lot of churning through data to help us
do back-end decision making to make it
so customer friendly so usable is
revelation you know when on the project
I was you know we got there's a lot of
Statistics involved a lot of testing it
was hard to use it was hard for me to
wrap my head around a lot of engineering
but to see such a great product come out
of it so quickly after that just like
everybody else I'm just amazed and I
like the art we use it you know it's
incredible for pattern recognition it
just does things that you can't do man
annually you can't program for machine
learning is it's going to make a lot of
things possible because a lot of
expensive hard to do things will get
easier yeah one of the kind of dystopian
conversations that came out of East
Denver for me personally was chatting
with someone who said that the future of
the internet is going to rely on
identity standards because in a few
years we're not going to be able to tell
if information is real or not and if it
was written by a human or by an AI bot
so we're definitely at an inflection
point right now we are but you have to
embrace change you have to embrace
Innovation and things change so like if
you hold on to if you try to stop it
you're gonna listen and I think
everybody kind of knows that at least in
our space right so what does it mean we
have to come up we have to innovate in
terms of authenticity find different
ways to figure out the credibility of
somebody in our space in the Dow space
that's really important because you know
crypto wallet is not them so there's
different methodologies that teams are
using to I was in a meeting 90 minutes
ago we were talking about this um to
verify the reputation of somebody
participating in a game in a space in a
dowel you don't know their name and
address and social security number but
there are different ways you can look at
what they've done on chain and they're
it's a different kind of fingerprint but
it's still a fingerprint and
um malicious actors leave fingerprints
and so do good actors and so as building
new you know trust will mean something
different than an I you know handshake
was what it used to be eye contact is
what it used to be owning my pii is what
it is now in the future it could be
machine learning can help us look at the
behavior of somebody over time on chain
and determine the probability of them
being a good actor or a bad actor and
that's happening right now in our space
so I think we'll innovate our way we can
stay in front of the dystopian reality I
mean the thing about you know Ready
Player One wasn't that they built this
sort of simulated Universe it was that
it was so much better than the universe
that people lived in and that's that's
the creepy part for me it's not that I
can't tell from a fake person you know
it's that it'll be better than my actual
life
that's what I need to be careful I'm
excited to talk about some technologies
like zero knowledge proofs and maybe
reputation Badges and things like this
when it comes to Dows but kind of like
sticking on this theme of innovation I'm
curious to hear what were your insights
the first time you heard about
blockchain crypto Bitcoin ethereum when
was the first time you heard about this
and did you just kind of like glaze over
and look past it or or what were your
kind of initial insights well I'm not
somebody that you know read satoshi's
white paper and just got the religion I
was reading about it in the Press like
with everybody else in wired and Fast
Company and it seemed you know the sort
of peer-toe your financial exchange I
understood pretty quickly the desire to
not have Banks or governments involved
in the exchange of value I think that's
sort of uh clearly a compelling use case
that that they're not necessarily
trustworthy but we have to put our trust
in them in order to live in the world
and the fact that they can have agendas
that are not consistent with our own
that made total sense to me it took me a
long time to figure out places to apply
it but I sort of tracked it I didn't I
didn't really get involved I didn't buy
early or anything like that I I saw the
reputation sour like where you know it
went super duper right-wing whack job
and then it went you know Drifter just
in the last few years when the nft
explosions happened then it got
absolutely absurd and so I was mostly an
observer for that but I had at different
times checked in on the development of
blockchain tech for different products
out there working on to make businesses
so like blockchain Tech has got a big
role to play I think in marketing
applications and loyalty applications we
have a lot of data security is very
important and you want to have a
portable currency well that's that's
crypto right it has every loyalty
application that you you have now could
probably be built more securely and more
cheaply on a shared crypto architecture
so it's a currency your airline miles or
a currency to point you accrue at your
grocery store by our currency you know
the obviously Starbucks is doing an
amazing job already with their loyalty
program employee recognition systems
very much so that's putting currency
back and forth and obviously every
incentive program that happened the
Salesforce does you know that's a
currency so you got tracking Data
Tracking transactions Distributing
currency that's crypto and it's really
hard too like in your last it might have
been Alaska sakib Wasim he was talking
about the Incredible cost of banks go
through to build up all the this
infrastructure a loyalty platform does
most of the stuff that a bank does but
it hasn't get stood up at the pace of
market so like these things stand up
like tens and tens of thousands of
people in really quick tons of money is
being handled tens of thousands of
transactions but you don't have all the
time of Bank ads to stand up their thing
these things are spun up and spun down
rapidly you know as your bank card
changes loyalty providers you get a new
car in the mail that's a whole new
banking system that you've just gotten a
lot of that expense and work and risk
could be offloaded to the chain I think
it's inevitable I think it will be five
years ago when I was looking into it it
was already
um some blockchain companies are in
royalty space and they're doing fine
there are some barriers like people
don't have crypto wallets right I right
until we get Mass adoption you know an
airline can't just tell you to go
download anchor or something else or you
know create a coinbase account so you
gotta figure that piece out sometimes
they like to have points instead of
fungible currency because they they want
you to spend your earnings on in-kind
rewards right so or they don't want you
to spend your earnings on you know
whatever so but those are just
implementation details I think given the
cost that um and the risk that's really
not added value given what blockchain
can do and the Loyalty program should be
a creative thing that really inspires
people connects them to your brand and
so much of the money is wasted from the
technology that doesn't need to be I've
been in the crypto space since 2017 and
that's kind of one of the things that
has blown my mind that has not taken off
yet is these tokenized royalty rewards
even secondary markets for me to be able
to swap my target points for Starbucks
points right but you you bring up a lot
of really good issues uh there's not
mainstream adoption so we don't have
like my mom downloading a wallet yet
yeah and also we just you know Starbucks
might not want their points to leave
their ecosystem so to say so maybe
that's kind of like a like a corporate
sort of hang up right now I'm hoping
that blockchain crypto networks can kind
of help make folks realize that if
there's a little bit of uh for lack of
better term liquidity between rewards
points for different companies that
maybe there's uh some positive
externalities that can come from that so
do you at decoco feel that you're more
focused on Dows or are you more focused
on the gaming industry right now that's
a great question we started as our
founders of Doubt people Dell Architects
Visionaries you know strategists but
also they love games very creative
people some dials are a creative
solution to a problem in my opinion the
games are mostly reference games like
one thing that you need but we're in the
business of innovating in the Dallas
space so creating communities trustless
communities you know that enable people
that want to be leaders that want to
create culture to get together in a
trustless environment and make shared
decisions and allocate resources to do
that you need people one problem in the
Dial tech space is it is not enough
people in this space to really test and
scale the market like it's really an
exclusive it's a management tool right
so like dials or how you manage
something else if not for a lot of users
what gaming does is it enables us to
bring in users and pay to earn gaming
enables us to bring in many users right
so that's how the two go together with
that said we love gaming when we started
you know building up the people our
early adopters a lot of them joined the
company it's a lot of fun it makes the
job a lot of fun and it brings in
importantly that community of people
that really care about the brand really
care about the game and want to be
involved so that's core for the
community the Dow is a container
technology without any kind of context
it doesn't work it's about people into
Coco and alien world is about people in
the community so that gives us the
people and the problem to solve and the
mission and the shared goals and
objectives that's needed to give the a
Dao the right context to work in it yeah
and also it was really fun digging into
decoco the company has roots in the old
EOS ecosystem and was born out of uh EOS
DAC so it's really refreshing to kind of
see a group of people who've been in the
space for five six plus years now
continuing to build and also grow
bringing you into the fold from an
external industry so that's really
exciting so you're focusing right now on
alien worlds so I'm wondering this is
kind of an awkward question why is the
gaming industry so negative on
blockchain Technologies and things like
nfts it would seem to me that this is
kind of like the perfect mesh of having
like in-game items in-game world and
game plots and being able to own them as
a token and then be able to sell them on
secondary markets so I'm curious like
why is there a disconnect with Gamers
and this new kind of activation that the
technology offers them in order to be
able to own and maybe even buy or sell
Goods that's a great question and I
should have thought about that a lot
more ahead of time you know and I should
know that because I know that to be the
case that they really can't stand you
know nft assets and and there's a big
pushback in traditional AAA midcore
games on blockchain Tech and nft rewards
so I would say you could be let's you
can go back to our East Denver next
thing it's a conspiracy so like who's it
whose interest right is it that
blockchain games are not adopted so you
could be but I think it's a difference
in usability if your expectation for a
game right is Red Dead Redemption 2 on
the Xbox or like you're flying through
space you know you can't do that on
chain right you can't you can you can't
have that immersive inexperience so
maybe it's that maybe for those hardcore
first-person shooter games or you know
simulators and everything else maybe
they just don't want to take a step
backwards in terms of the the speed and
the interactive experience that you can
have and I get that so I understand that
but I I don't know if a McKamey is such
a broad had such a broad industry you
know in that corner of it I don't get
why there's so much pushback on nfts in
the crypto space maybe it's because of
crypto's reputation it could it could
just do that yeah really cool it's a
unanswerable question from my
perspective but I also remember before I
bought my first nft two years ago now
two and a half years ago I did not get
it at all I didn't buy in and I'm a
crypto native so I can see how it could
take a while for some people to come
around now I want to talk a little bit
about decoco we talked about the
background of the company coming from
the eospace and really building
decentralized autonomous communities so
what is the focus of tococo now
it seems like alien worlds is the
company's Premier product but you also
talked about Dow Solutions so that leads
me to believe that decoco isn't just
focusing on building a game but maybe
that there's other Realms as well that
the company would like to tap into so
beyond the alien worlds which I can't
wait to dig into what are some other
Focus areas that you and your peers at
tococo spend your days digging into to
answer that question like I'll let you
know that alien worlds is the test badge
for our Dao strategies right so we've
brought in all of these game players in
order to test out to push the limits of
what dials can do with an audience so it
is our lab you know it is where we're
we're innovating for our Dao our Dow
Tech so we're learning there there's a
lot we could do that we're thinking
about doing in terms of taking
the learnings from in the game and
applying them to you know as it could be
new products or services in the gaming
industry outside the gaming industry
we're doing you know what we're doing in
the dials in the game is pretty much The
Cutting Edge and so the founders came up
with this design which was really
ingenious has been durable it's enabled
us to do quite a bit in terms of
building games and building these
communities on top of it but this was
the goal is to push forward the um push
the envelope on what Dallas can do and
to help prove the use case for it I'm in
a broader Market gaming is perfect for
that yeah definitely uh Gaming's perfect
because you have people who already have
an inherent interest in the
participation of a game the direction of
the game because they're playing it Dows
to me have always been really
interesting but governance is something
that people just aren't interested in
dating back to 2016 only half of the
United States voted and everyone who
didn't vote for number 45 was very upset
but you know did you actually
participate in this governance process
so it's really hard to get people
interested in reading and developing an
opinion and then participating so it's
really cool that you guys are digging
into building out this Suite of tools
using alien worlds before we dig into
the game what are some other use cases
or verticals or Industries or Realms in
which you think that Dows will be
integrated into those sort of
decision-making processes maybe in the
short term because it can be really hard
to tell right now it seems to me that
gaming is is a really good use case for
Dows but what are some other areas that
you think are should be on our radar to
kind of like keep our ears to the ground
and and really see how this technology
is going to be integrated into
that's a great question so in like
adjacent markets or like so we have the
Coco right here what's right next door
to us you know all crypto companies
generally need a decentralization you
know roadmap dials are essential for
decentralization if you're going to hand
over the management of your company to
you know uh decentralize organization
that dial is going to come in very handy
for that so um crypto companies crypto
games could use it for decentralization
theoretically any another crypto games
it doesn't have it wants to organize or
in-game communities and give them more
autonomy give them more authority over
the management of their assets that's a
possibility where we could partner or
provide services to another blockchain
game then you can think about natural
kind of types of organizations that
could use a trustless structure like a
dow non-profits come to mind which is
pretty good where you know money comes
in and there's people that are trusted
to allocate the money in a transparent
way transparency would make nonprofits a
lot better because it's there are
famously places for expensive dinners
and fun trips you know and eventually
you know the charity happens you know so
they bring a lot of transparency to the
nonprofit space I like the idea of
pop-up dials or there's a temporary need
for people to get together that don't
know each other in a trust environment
to make decisions distribute resources
and then that's it that's a really
interesting use case that we've been
looking at for the last few months one
thing with Dallas is a lot of times
people that come together don't need to
stay together forever in perpetuity like
a company right so the easiest way to
think of a dial is like it does what um
the leadership team or a board does at a
company but the uh you know all of the
decisions are on chain and the lawyer is
replaced with a smart contract so they
have that's that's kind of like what it
does you know but it's kind of this ring
around you know a decision-making
process that's a little bit simplistic
ultimately it's very nascent you know
and and that's why the gaming test bed
is so helpful because we can start to
see how these cultures are formed it
isn't that we know exactly how it's
going to happen we're putting this out
there and watching how it behaves in the
context of a community one thing we do
to keep the energy up in Alien worlds is
we have new elections every week and we
have six different dials the dials
compete so you have all of these
elections and competitions going on all
the time so we keep it turning over and
uh in-game competition gives you a lot
of energy that you're not going to have
otherwise if I just had this container
this Dial tech and I was going out in
the market trying to sell it it would be
harder the stage of the industry
my first job out of college was
fundraising for a charity and the lack
of transparency was hands down one of
the biggest reasons why people would
always give us an excuse not to donate
yeah so that's that's a really
interesting use case that you're you're
bringing up also I'm kind of fascinated
about the six different Dows so before
we let's take a step back and just talk
about what alien worlds is is it a
desktop application is it a mobile game
uh how can users interact with the game
and maybe if you could just give us like
a quick little elevator pitch of what it
is so that we could dig a Little Deeper
okay this is exciting it's a
browser-based game it's all to
JavaScript and react with some smart
contracts on the back end it looks very
beautiful if you come in you create your
account which includes creating an
account on the wax Cloud wallet which is
the chain we're on you enter the game
it's a play to earn game you pick Planet
there's six different planets to choose
from you go to a planet and you can mine
on that planet for Trillium the Trillium
is the in-game token that's our token
for alien worlds you mine for Trillium
using a tool that's an nft on land
that's an nft and then you know you as
you get Trillium you can upgrade your
tooling you can buy a land yourself and
as you accrue resources over over
playing the game you can actually run
for console on one of the planetary
dials so it's just the same way as you
pick a planet to go mine you can run for
Council on any of the six planetary
dials we call them syndicates in the
game to make it more cool than down
you run for Syndicate we include stake
weighted voting which means that you
start with you want to vote for there's
an election every week so you're going
to vote for a a candidate if you put
more Trillium in your vote is stronger
and then if you stake it so there's
different ways for us to offset the
income inequality that's the inherently
the game and in any economy some people
have a lot of Trillium some people have
a little Trillium if you want more
voting power you can stake your little
Australian for longer and that kind of
balances things out and both are some of
the learnings we got from our Founders
being an EO stack right so we've done
this a couple of times and some of those
mechanisms are something that you know
are hard earned learnings you know these
kind of economics and how things behave
so we have these elections every month
that's the dial game you know the
governance game we've got the mining
game we've got a missions game that's
basically gamified staking so you go on
a mission and you know when it comes
back you've accrued some more Trillium
and we got of course more games on the
road now that's really interesting so is
that sort of like a quadratic voting
sort of structure with with uh stakers
essentially having more weight when they
participate in a Syndicate vote yeah so
if if I had got 10 trillion you've got
100 right and we're both voting on our
candidate I want my candidate to win if
I'm willing to stake my trillion for
longer than you then I can balance out
right the power of my vote with your
economic advantage over mine so it's a
way to kind of even things out and
create more parity in elections because
otherwise obviously the power pools very
quickly in any economy if there's no
design in place to kind of like offset
the disadvantages and are you noticing
that there are Trillium whales that are
in the game is it from and if they are
if they do exist is it from uh basically
ogs who have been around since day one
or from maybe someone who bought into
the vision of the game and just acquired
a ton of Trillium I think it's mostly
the ogs the people and we have a loyal
group of you know community of players
and players include people that really
like the mining game could never afford
a piece of land because of where they
live in the world but but they enjoy the
game we've got players that enjoy the
game because of its lure and it's
gameplay and we're an indie game and
there's an attachment to us because of
that and we've been around for a while
and we haven't done a rug pull we're
imperfect but we're doing our best and I
definitely feel like our community gives
us the benefit of the doubt and then we
have people that have been around for a
while and have crewed quite a bit of
trillion so and some of them have
figured out you know like earlier on I
take advantage of some things before we
had the economy totally balance up and
that's fine so now I've got this sort of
economy with a few big holders in many
smaller holders and so for me since we
just got you know as a product person
like since we just got these dolls in
place and I know the people that are
running in the Dows for the most part
they're Builders they really want to do
creative things that's why they're
involved with the game that's why the
you know they're ogs and they've got you
know stockpiles of Trillium because
they've been here for a while and they
are innovators and so and I think they
want to build these great cultures so
we're looking at products and structures
to connect them to the smaller to make
sure that it's one community so like how
can the Dows fund activities get
connected to the gameplay of people
doing mining games or missions or
whatever games we come forward with next
we've also got grants going out to um
teams and programmers is to build their
own games on our ecosystem we're very
open architecture on the back end we're
providing documentation the grant
program is called g-hubs so one thing we
we're not like a stovepipe product we're
an open metaverse and that means it's
really significant into all of the ways
that we're open especially in the smart
contract level so we have people
building their own games using our nfts
and our Trillium against our smart
contracts and they're part of this
ecosystem that's really cool I just
moved all over the place man I'm sorry
no it's totally fine I also wanted to
just give your team Kudos on the lore
because uh I really enjoyed watching the
videos especially like the update videos
and I got like uh I don't know if you
remember the movie Starship Troopers oh
yeah lovely yeah I got like a Vibe of
like the Starship Troopers when they
would have the news scenes that's kind
of the vibe I got with like the lore
updates
um that alien worlds put out so that was
really fun so if any of your content
creators or lore Builders are listening
to this Kudos well rcmo would be very
happy to hear that the Lord is his
passion project he's brought so much
energy into the company he's really
infused us with a passion for
storytelling the founders gave us great
building blocks with these planets with
the races and the weapons the backstory
and uh with his help we're bringing some
of those stories forward and our
community is doing a great job of
bringing the story forward too what's
your CMOS name Kevin Rose shout out to
Kevin shout out
so you've mentioned a couple times in
our discussion that there are multiple
Dows that are in Alien worlds so are
these multiple dials just that there are
six planets and there are six syndicates
and so there are six different Dows that
you get to vote on or is it that the
voting for a Syndicate leader is just
one of the types of dials and maybe
another is like the direction that like
I can vote on where I want the storyline
to go that is a great question and one
that Kevin would have loved to hear you
ask right now that you know we we
release the Dow Tech in October and
we've done probably four different minor
upgrades and what we're doing now the
first thing we could do is enable the
payment for projects right so once
you're voted into a dial you can vote
and devote passes and the basic proposal
is we're going to pay somebody you know
from our Treasury and the game funds A
treasury right so the Dow has access to
a treasury and if they pay for projects
we had one of our planetary dials by
advertising on the Las Vegas Strip they
do different they fund different
creative projects so really got great
ideas right so that's the kind of
projects they fund right now we are
innovating the space of new proposal
types so like is there something we can
build on chain to help a dow promote
itself this is something we can do on
chain it'll be a new proposal type to
help a dow in a trustless environment
you know accept and manage a project is
there something we can do on chain for a
dow to accept referendum from the
Explorers on that planet that don't have
the authority of being a custodian so
like there's we have a backlog of ways
to enable the dials to do more what the
idea your specific idea for managing and
controlling the lore is something we're
very interested in you know we've got a
lot of great creative contributions
technical contributions art
contributions and storyline
contributions game storyline combining
like our community is just the absolute
best they've run with kind of the
building blocks that are out there and
we do see a Dao as an excellent model to
decentralize the management of Allure
franchise like we think that that's
that's hasn't been done but that's
something we're very interested in doing
that's something that as I mentioned
cabins very invested in you know we
could build it up and then hand it over
as something that's very decentralizable
and actually you know targeting back to
our you know publishing industry
conversation kind of the opposite right
where there's a gated concept where you
can actually turn it over to the people
that love it the most and they will make
it do things that you can never imagine
we're a small team right without the
ideas of our community I can't do it all
by myself I mean who can yeah so
something else I'm really curious to
play your ear on is this open source
metaverse it sounded like if I'm a Game
Dev I can tap into alien worlds what
does this look like like can I just come
out of nowhere one day and say Here's
the seventh planet I've done all the
creative drawings for it I've brought in
my own Community we've already staked
Trillium like I'm just popping up out of
nowhere and I'm ready to integrate my
own land into your game what is that
sort of Open Source metaverse look like
it doesn't look exactly like that
because there is smart contract that
governs you know what you know the
container of the alien world's game and
so and uh blueprint that we published we
are kind of bound to some constraints
but we do have you can use our nfts you
can use our Trillium and you can use our
smart contracts to build your own game
and the g-hubs grant program will will
help guide you to do that and we're
writing documentation now so we like we
want people to build their games you
want to build a chess game if you want
to build you know a side scroller if you
want to build a racing game with our app
team it's like whatever let us know come
to alien worlds we want to hear from you
because we you know we've talked about
people that participate in Dallas we've
talked about people that kind of have a
love of forward thinking like sort of
Bad ux blockchain Games we're trying to
make units better but the mining game is
kind of hard to do and you gotta love
what it is to play it but there's also
you know these builders that is another
Persona that were really really
important to our community a lot of
those are the same people actually
they're into Dallas they're very
technically savvy so they're already
using our smart contracts we're working
really hard on documentation we're
building apis now this year so that we
can really get it out there and create a
builder's kit for folks and we we see
that as being a key job for us in the
space and something we've got permission
to do is really help people bring
forward their gaming ideas in a crypto
space kind of like an SDK for crypto
games yeah I'm a big proponent of all
that in addition to the smart economy
podcast I'm also very active in the Neo
ecosystem system I'm a member of a
community funding Dow and we've
distributed grant funding I'm very well
aware of the importance of documentation
and sdks and providing all this for
people to easily build and integrate and
iterate on top of what you guys have
already created so to hear uh grants and
micro grants and documentation as music
to my ears what are you envisioning with
like maybe if somebody built uh I don't
know alien world slot machine or alien
worlds racing game will there be like a
portion on the web app that will host
kind of like a mini games folder or
catch-all uh is that kind of what you're
envisioning oh yeah we're building a
showcase right now for the projects
we've got one that we published a few
months ago and we're just about done but
the thing is the only weird thing is
we've never we have to put this
marketing we don't have any marketing
content like that we don't have like a
showcase so we had to figure out a way
to do it on chain right so like it's
easy to say oh we just got to build this
website and Link out to the project and
they can go play that game the community
built now we need to build we need to
content manage that web page on chain so
that we can eventually turn it over to
the dials to run themselves if you build
everything to be decentralized it adds a
little bit of overhead but it's also
makes it more interesting to do so yeah
we'll have uh we're calling it I believe
it'll end up being called The Arena
where we'll have different projects that
come forward from G hubs and other
community projects communities do more
than gaming too they've given us lore
they've given us gaming ideas we've got
people really excellent like gaming
ideas and art projects if you follow us
on Instagram the fan art is phenomenal
like people are doing really cool AI
stuff just top-notch paintings it's
beautiful yeah and and the artwork for
alien worlds that your team is
responsible for also looks really good
so shout out to that team oh thanks a
lot so like Wax is a very they're very
much going after the gaming space so I'm
curious what were some of the things you
were looking into when choosing which
blockchain to build on top of well
that's a little bit before my time I
know that like Wax was compatible with
the EOS experience we had already and
and they're focused on gaming I think
that's probably most of it and when we
launched it offered another offered a
good ux for onboarding into a blockchain
game at the time since then that hasn't
aged particularly well and so we need to
go back through and and take another
round the onboarding experience which
we're doing right now the wax is still
very dedicated to gaming and there's the
tooling is great they're very flexible
and we know that we're doing things in
our game with our dials would be
difficult if not impossible on bigger
chains so it's a constant trade-off it's
it's hard we can do very cool things but
the addressable Market is limited so
it's it's a good fit for now for sure
you just mentioned onboarding and I
what's the best way to put this with
play to earn games it seems like you can
have very short-term oriented
individuals who join the ecosystem
because they can spin up a wallet they
can onboard and they can maybe create a
bot to script what they do or maybe they
just show up for a week click a lot of
buttons get a couple bucks and then they
exit so when I was looking into
onboarding into alien world something
that I noticed right off the bat is that
there's a small upfront fee around five
dollars to onboard is this by Design or
was it something that is kind of
required by building on top of the wax
chain what was sort of the thought
process that went into making a little
bit of a monetary upfront and investment
into playing the game that actually
comes from wax and I think that you know
that's going to wind up going away like
this week or next week so they've
re-architected and so that you know that
was a result of cost drivers they were
experiencing so that's understandable
but it did create kind of a barrier to
entry now of course that about five
dollar fee did create some kind of
barrier but you know I don't think
that's the best design to prevent
automated account creation the best way
to in my opinion in my the way my team
approaches is like yes of course we've
got to do things to account for you know
people that aren't there to love the
game but the best way to do that is make
the game more fun you know provide some
progression you know make it more fun
and over time more valuable to stay with
one wallet keep playing you accrue
things that are associated with that
wallet and that wallet gains value over
time and you'll give them more fun
gamified things to do in the game so we
have to manage for antibody and things
like that but we have to design for
people and kind of if you design for
people generally fun things to do are
harder to buy yeah if the flatter it is
the easier it is the more the more depth
you create and the more storytelling and
the more growth and life cycle that you
you enable inside of the game the better
it is for everybody absolutely kind of
wrapping up I want to hear two
perspectives from you what are you
really excited about with the gaming
industry and integration of thousand
blockchain moving forward and also what
are you really excited about for alien
worlds moving forward well I think um
for the gaming industry and all of my
gaming experience has been on the last
year on the blockchain game so yeah um I
think that uh blockchain offers a lot of
utility even though there is some
resistance to some probably you know uh
well-funded corner of the industry uh
against the use case for having portable
assets for to enabling somebody that you
know plays one version of your game to
bring their assets with them to the new
version of their game or to sell those
assets when they're finished with the
game it's kind of unassailable like I
mean it's it's hard to say that if I buy
a truck in your game and I don't own it
right and when it goes away you know
when you turn off your server so I think
that that's one of those things that's
just inevitable kind of with the banking
industry too like you know like
ultimately the technology is better
digital rights are better you know
traceability and auditability is better
and it'll just be inevitable so I think
it'll happen over time I think what
everybody imagines is these AAA games
running on blockchain and that's not
possible now so it's not good well I
mean there's a guy that was around in
the 70s named Bernard suits and he was
kind of an English I think philosopher
about gaming right is it a play a game
is a voluntary effort to overcome
unnecessary challenges or something like
that right so like everybody so that's
if you expand what a game is right it
can be more than shooting aliens you
know in a 3D environment it can be the
people that went to the trouble to set
up their wallets with alien worlds and
wax a year and a half ago were doing a
voluntary effort to overcome an
unnecessary obstacle because they were
interested in it because it was
interesting to them and they wanted to
experience it and that's what we're
still trying to tap into the people that
are involved in our dials today are
doing the same thing they're not getting
rich off they're they're doing it
because they're interested in the
project they're invested in the project
and they want to be a part of it and
they like there's a value to them to
being part of the community and being
involved in this big experiment right so
for me that's the core of what I'm
excited about in terms of blockchain
gaming I'm excited about what we're
doing at the Coco I love what you know
splinterland is doing amazing things
Upland is doing amazing things you know
a lot of the other companies in Oma 3
the sort of Alliance that we have of
blockchain games
some are great at marketing some are
really incredible at the civilization
type game I think we've you know our
niche in the open metaverse and the
communities that we're building in the
Dow Space is really powerful and I like
the ability to focus on people and the
players and the culture that they're
bringing forward and to kind of expand
what the definition of play is I mean
the play is voting the play is getting
in learning about this sort of uh this
startup this sort of indie project and
getting involved and people really like
that and what we want to do is honor
that nurture that make it possible to
share it with a broader audience the
quote of the fellow from the 70s that
you mentioned reminds me I'm into rock
climbing and uh Yvonne chinard who
founded Patagonia calls rock climbers
conquistadors of the useless that's
right so while these uh unnecessary
challenges might seem like insignificant
to some to others they mean the world
so what's the best way that people can
keep up with you with alien worlds or
with to Coco on telegram at BT Sullivan
and alien worlds is played
alienworlds.io you can also go to our
decoco.io website we're on Twitter
Twitter and uh Instagram it's probably
the best place to follow us for news you
know we have things going on every week
the mark you know the communities team
do a great great job we're all ready
we're a global game and so we're in most
markets and we've got a pretty great
Community team so we're pretty easy to
find awesome well to anyone listening go
check out any of those social media
resources to onboard yourself into alien
worlds Brendan thank you so much for
sharing an hour with me today it was
really cool to hear your background what
gets you really excited about Dows and
gaming and just your psych for this new
Innovative and ever-changing industry
thanks Dylan it's been a real privilege
to represent the team and it's been
enjoyable to meet you and uh share the
last hour awesome thanks a lot cheers
take care
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was really
cool to hear Brendan's perspective on
Dows serving as a tool and that it is
indeed a community that's necessary to
leverage these resources it was also
interesting to hear how decoco seeks to
build upon the active environments of
passionate Gamers and tap into their
desires to collaborate with one another
through Dao tooling looking forward
it'll be interesting to see how the open
source ecosystem supports new additions
to the game that are delivered from its
builder-oriented community on that note
I want to thank you so much for taking
the time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative
as part of Neo's governance process we
appreciate you and look forward to
catching you next time